# Tabs

Tabs allow multiple sections of content to be combined and viewed one at a time. One section in a tabs component will always be visible. This component follows the [WAI tab pattern](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/tabs/) with manual activation.

Each section of content is divided into 2 parts:

* A panel, which contains the primary content
* A tab, which is used to make the panel visible

When a tab is selected, its panel is made visible and other panels are hidden.

## Creating tabs

Tabs are placed in the `tabs` content slot. Tabs should be button elements, but they must contain the `role="tab"` attribute and an `aria-controls` attribute whose value is the `id` of the corresponding panel.

```html
<h2 id="tab-header">Programs</h2>
<il-tabs aria-labelledby="tab-header">
    <div slot="tabs">
        <button role="tab" aria-controls="panel1">Degree Programs</button>
        <button role="tab" aria-controls="panel2">Non-degree Programs</button>
        <button role="tab" aria-controls="panel3">Classroom Experience</button>
    </div>
    <div id="panel1">
      <h3>Degree Programs</h3>
      <!-- ... --->
    </div>
    <div id="panel2">
      <h3>Non-degree Programs</h3>
      <!-- ... --->
    </div>
    <div id="panel3">
      <h3>Classroom Experience</h3>
      <!-- ... --->
    </div>
</il-tabs>
```

Tabs are displayed in a row, and the selected tab is highlighted. The panel for the selected tab is displayed below.

[screenshot]

On smaller screens, the row of tabs collapses to a list.

[screenshot]

## Vertical tabs

In a vertical tab layout, tabs are displayed in a column to the left and the selected tab's panel is visible to the right. To create vertical tabs, use the `direction` attribute with the `vertical` value:

```html
<il-tabs direction="vertical">
```
## Setting the active tab

By default, the first tab is selected on page load. To change which tab is initially selected, use the `data-il-selected` attribute on the tab:

```html
<il-tabs>
    <div slot="tabs">
        <div role="tab" aria-controls="panel1">Degree Programs</div>
        <div role="tab" aria-controls="panel2" data-il-selected="true">Non-degree Programs</div>
        <div role="tab" aria-controls="panel3">Classroom Experience</div>
    </div>
      <!-- ... --->
</il-tabs>
```
## Accessibility
In compliance with WCAG 2.2 Level AA this component implements the following accessibility features, referencing the [Tabs pattern](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/tabs/):

Success Criterion 1.3.1 Info and Relationships
The contents are contained in a tablist role and items in the tab slot are given the tab role. Guidance is given to use headings to signify headings and aria-controls to show relationships between the tab buttons and the area the tab controls. Orientation is defined using aria-orientation. 

SC 1.3.2 Meaningful Sequence
Content displayed in the markup matches the sequence generated by the web control. 

SC 1.4.1 Use of Color
Tabs are displayed in a higher prominence to indicate they are clickable

SC 1.4.3: Contrast (Minimum) 
There is a minimum contrast ratio of 4.5:1 between the text and the background, following color themes.

SC 1.4.10: Reflow 
The tab list reduces to an accordion style set of items on smaller screens.

SC 1.4.13 Content on Hover or Focus
Information does not disappear when items are hovered or focus. A mouse click or Enter is required to display the information. 

SC 2.1.1: Keyboard 
When the user would tab into the tab area, focus is given to the active tab button in the tab area. When the tab area is focused, arrow keys are used to change to alternate tabs. Enter or space is used to activate the tab. Tab will move to the next available item inside the tab panel, or the tab panel if there are no focusable elements inside the tab panel.

SC 2.4.3 Focus Order
The tab area is considered one focusable item. Items inside the tab panels will receive tab focus as dictated by the source code order. 

SC 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context)
Guidance is given to ensure tabs in the tab area match the headings in the tab panels. 

SC 2.4.6 Headings and Labels
Guidance is given to ensure headings are used in the tab panels. 

SC 2.4.7: Focus Visible 
Focus with the component is clearly indicated.

SC 2.5.8: Target Size (Minimum) 
Buttons maintain a minimum size of 24×24 pixels.

SC 3.2.1 On Focus
The buttons in the tab area do not change the tabpanel by focusing on them.

SC 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value
Guidance is given to use aria-control on the tab buttons and aria-labelledby on the tab panel to link it to a header. The component will assign the aria-selected name to signify the selected tab, and the aria-labelledby on each tab panel to tie the panel back to the tab button.
